the current state of congestion is is
very difficult to take 25 minutes to get
from the Kennedy Expressway to well
straight its it's six blocks you could
walk in in in half the time
congestion is increasing and that
affects the ability of us to operate our
buses on those surface streets more than
half of the people traveling in vehicles
across the loop are actually in buses
yet buses are often going as slow as
three miles per hour
that's slower than walking speed the
buses in writing in the loop it's
terrible
the buses slow down tremendously I don't
care which direction you're going in or
out of the loop and I think anything
that would help move them faster will
assist them typically I allow for extra
twenty to thirty minutes because I know
the routes gonna be congested and it's
gonna take a while because there's just
so much traffic and you're moving so
slowly congestion has played downtown
travel for decades and we've been
talking for a long time about how to
address the growing congestion problems
finally under Mayor Emanuel's leadership
we're taking action and in 2015 see that
the partnership with CTA will be
building out the loop link project which
will be a modern transportation corridor
across the heart of the loop on
Washington Madison Clinton and Canal
that will provide separated dedicated
space for general traffic buses
bicyclists and pedestrians we run about
a thousand bus trips a day on this pair
of streets that the loop link will
operate on almost 50% of the people
moving in vehicles there so there are
frankly no ways to add additional lanes
on those streets and so the loop link
sorts out the traffic in those lanes in
a way that will provide more efficient
use of the available curb to curb space
on the west end of the loop link
corridor will be a new Union Station
Transit Center there will be an off
street CTA bus facility serving
customers coming to and from Union
station and will provide safer more
efficient space for bus boarding and
alighting it'll also connect to a
weather protected underground pedway
connection to the Union Station
concourses for those connecting to and
from and track and metric trains the
loop link will be used by six CTA bus
routes that reach all corners of the
city so daily commuters people trying to
get to school or to recreation will
benefit from these investments downtown
as part of their overall travel time to
and from their destination so it's a
great example of how we can make an
investment that will have positive
ripple effects throughout the city I
think it's a good example of how we can
move more people more efficiently
through investments in our public
transportation system we realized that a
lot of the infrastructure that's
necessary now is important for the
future and it's really important if
you're going to keep your city alive to
improve upon your infrastructure and
your systems all the time public
transportation is integral to the
success of the downtown area there are
probably two or three people out of our
entire hotel that actually ever drive to
work 99 percent of our employees take
public unification and we encourage our
guests to do the same thing and I think
this project is going to help to
alleviate some of that congestion
this has been a need for the city and
the region to continue to support our
economic growth and continued demands
for the limited roadway space we have
downtown we need to make sure that we're
providing safe efficient options for
people to move across the loop
regardless of mode the loop link will
reduce congestion and move people more
efficiently to their destinations